---
title: w03s1
published_at: 2024-03-27
snippet: The forth blog
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

## Video Portrait Draft

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XSQaEdfo8uc?si=1aTjnzXvlIy8TU5W" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

"A self portrait about an artist struggling to find ideas for his own self-portrait. This video is meant to represent my initial anxieties coming to RMIT and my struggles with creative thinking during the video."

Whilst producing this film, I realised I've immediately ran into a bunch of problems right away. First, uploading the video to an external storage to save for my computer/laptop. I couldn't connect my iPhone to my computer because there's no USB port to support that, but even if I did, it would take ages to upload since the device goes through all videos and photos! Realising this, I have to extract the videos to google drive, which sounds fine at first but then I've ran into another small problem, some videos won't upload. I'm not sure why or how this is happening, but when uploading a batch of videos at once, sometimes Google drive just straight up doesn't upload them and says 'fail to upload.' Not only does this make the uploading stage take a bit longer, but it's just a major hassle having to do this to every video that doesn't upload. As for solutions, I don't know - I just try uploading them again and it works, higher chance if I'm just uploading one singular video. Otherwise, time to try uploading some of them again. I don't know why this happens, but it's fine - it just makes the process significantly more tedious.

Making the draft with the storyboard vision in mind, I didn't have enough clips at the time to fully complete the draft. Not only that, but some shots were still unfinished and rushed, so I had to quickly made do with what I've got. In the end the draft came out... not to my liking, to be honest. Not sure if it's because the quality of the video is actually bad, or if it's because I'm just doubting myself as always. There shots I feel DEFINITELY should've been reworked, like the one where I slammed my hand onto the myki. It was too long, way too long - it extended the first sequence from being 20 seconds originally to 30 seconds. I want to change it, but I don't know what to. I also found out the shot of the sun was just literal milliseconds too short, so I'll have to record that too.

Although I knew that our drafts were related in today's activities, I really should've prepared myself for today's activity because realising everyone's going to see my work put me in some massive anxiety. Normally I don't get stage fright when up against a bunch of people, hell I can do oral presentations just fine and with confidence - but the idea of everyone seeing a rough draft of something I thought I could've severely improved just really made me nervous. I'm thankful that everyone was at least kind about their criticisms, at least someone was being nice about them unlike me with my own. 

Looking towards the criticisms, I think they can guide me towards the right track at least. Like Kevin said, there's still missing footage so I was working on that. With Milo, perhaps looking into some J or L cuts would greatly enhance my video. Diegetic sound seems to be apart of their criticism as well so maybe I should up the volume on them. Jamie said she liked the first sequence but I still find myself disliking the ending part with the PTV card... her actual criticisms however were that there was a black screen afterwards that made the pacing a little awkward as a divider section. I thought it could serve as a good stop point in between sequences, but if it ruins the pacing, perhaps I should think of a better way to transition them? Maybe a crossfade in between? Just means I have to rework that PTV card scene is all. With Matilda and Alyssa, they both think the pacing at the end was a bit slow so I'll go back to my original plan of having the clips at the end be two seconds long, which means I'll have to grab at least six more clips. Alyssa also reckons a bit of interaction with the objects would greatly help, so that the entire video isn't comprised of just still shots. Henry reckons I could mix the diegetic audio to be higher and play around with the audio to further enhance my ideas. Perhaps I should have the diegetic sounds of the train ride be louder than the music to help emphasise the feelings of loneliness I felt during the time? Mataso thought that maybe I should change the order of the clips to have the computer ones come after everything else, but if I were to do that, it would kind of defeat the whole narrative about me using procrasination as an escapism, something I typically do especially during the middle of everything. Although they did mention that I should have more of an emphasis on synchresis and diegetic sound, that sounds worth looking into! Airiel too believes I should have more of the SFX work with the background music, so at the end of the day I should really focus on audio editing and pacing of the last segment. 

As for the teacher, they told me to strengthen the second half as they believe it's not as strong as the first half. Additionally, I was also told to pay more attention to the pacing and the juxtaposition of each clip. 

With all this in mind, I continued to work on the finalised version of my video...

## Finalised Version

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qLM5JejFG2Y?si=mS7AaWBmUIpnp1mt" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Taking the feedback into account, I decided to change the pacing of the last sequence. Before shots would last around four seconds, but due to criticisms I decided to change them to two seconds which meant I had to find and record more footage for my work. With this in mind, I went around and shot a bunch of new footage that showed more about me as a person. Seeing as how others loved seeing my cat, I included a short mid-shot of my cat Cinnamon with me patting her as she yawns. Unlike the other shots of her that were supposed to illustrate the companionship between her and I, this shot was actually to speak about the character and how tired he was to this point during the process of making the artwork. Still, he continued to persist through to finish the drawing, now motivated more than ever to complete it now that he has overcame his art block. The next shot is to be paired with the next, as it demonstrates that now that my character is finally getting new ideas and passion for the artwork, he's much more dedicated towards the making of the artwork, which is represented by the clothesline spinning around as if it was like a machine running with power. The next shot illustrates my character walking through the trees with the sun to the background. It's meant to go after the previous shot due to the clothesline spinning to the right, which in this case is now leading the camera to go alongside the right. This shot in particular is symbolising the difficulties getting to the journey, as the sun is meant to be a metaphor for his drive for art yet it's obscured by all these trees and leaves, which results in the sun being covered. Nonetheless, the light perseveres, and in this adventure my character has finally gotten to a stage where he can now illustrate with satisfaction. The timelapse after is illustrating the time that passed in the video, which is followed up by a medium close up of me in the sketching process of my artwork. As the music ends, the scene crossfades into the morning after, which now shows the drawing finished. The room is dark with the morning light shining through the curtains, as the silence is occupied by the fan facing my bed as it was hot at night. This silence and wide shot of my room is to show moments of peace and satisfaction, hence the decision for the ending to be almost silent.

Additional other new scenes were also added during the process of the video. 1:38 in particular had four new shots in the span of one second for the sole purpose of setting the tone of the montage after to be much more upbeat in nature, and to highlight the sparks of inspiration my character was getting. I kept the diegetic sounds of the clips with the music and even timed some moments to it, such as me putting my headphones on to one of the beats and the flicking of the pen tip starting off the montage. I've also replaced the shot of the sun early on in the video as it was originally too short, and I've added a shot of my fathers garden of vegetables in the montage to symbolise the characters growth as an artist after overcoming an art block.

I've also increased the diegetic sound of all the scenes, so that the music and SFX pair together to enhance a more positive atmosphere to the video. I've adjusted each scene accordingly so that it all balanced together in terms of volume. Furthermore, I've changed some scenes to be J and L cuts, having the audio of the next scene be put in before (J cut) and having the audio of the previous scene linger onto the next (L cut). This was to expand the variety of editing in the video, and to sort of blend the scenes together. Additionally, I've had audio tracks dissolve into one another with audio transitions in order to make sure the audio flowed together seamlessly through each cut.

Upon finishing the cut, I'm glad to say it's reached a point where I'm very satisfied with how its turned out.

## Bibliography

trendsetter-mood-maze-main-version-02-53-1004.mp3 - Mood Maze. HNMLOTSEFO0CPFJB https://uppbeat.io/t/mood-maze/trendsetter 