---
title: w010s1
published_at: 2024-05-17
snippet: Week 10
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

## Assignment 1 - Video Edit

# How did you approach the relationship between the sonic and visual components of your edit?

In my video, I approached the visual and audio components of my edit through connecting the two vibes together. As I used an upbeat song with a quick tempo, I applied video editing to my project with quick cuts to match with the beat. Additionally, I've filmed slightly more vibrant colours to further connect with the tone of the audio, as filming plain coloured footage for something that sounded more exciting wouldn't make sense.

# How did you decide on the footage that you used to shape your project?

Since the assignment was meant to represent me and my experience with RMIT, I was struggling to come up with ways to visualise the process. However, I managed to talk to my friend Jamie who gave me the idea to visualise myself in symbolic means instead. With this input, I filmed things that were closely related to me, which was mostly in my house.

# What did you learn about the power of sound to shape emotional experience, and how did you apply this knowledge to your project?

With sound, specifically music, it was very easy for me to understand how sound can alter someones mood as someone who listens to Spotify almost 24/7. Powerful orchestral music had the ability to make people feel excited with goosebumps on their arms whilst sombre piano tracks can make audiences feel sad and melachonic. In other words, the tempo of music is usually what dictates how someone feels, as a sped up piano track of the same sad song could make someone feel hyped. Through this, I aimed to give the target audience a feeling of the energy I usually emit by playing a joyful track for the background that had a fast relentless tempo.

# How does editing relate to the concepts of pacing and rhythm, and how did you use these concepts to shape your use of time in the project?

Editing relates to pacing and rhythms through techniques such as montages, cutbacks, etc. How much cuts you put into your edit can ultimately decide how intense your scene could become. Quentin Tarantino's montages for example are horrifically fast paced and many action scenes (albeit way too much) love to use an absurd amount of jump cuts to their fight scenes. I applied the concepts of a montage through the scene where I've utilised multiple jump cuts of the same scene but in different times to symbolise how easily time can pass through in a day, whilst also demonstrating my habit of using procrasinating as escapism.

# Which parts of your personality, interests, past, and potential future did you choose to depict in your portrait?

I used my more social and upbeat tones of my personality whilst also demonstrating how frustrated I get when I get stuck in a roadblock, which I did (a lot) during the time I was making the project. I portrayed my interest in digital art as the core narrative of the project, as art is probably my biggest passion. As for past and potential future, I didn't really depict those as much as I did of the present, which just illustrated my journey on trying to complete an artwork (which was a symbolism of the self-portrait assignment) and finally getting it done in the end.

# What were the primary aesthetic choices that you made to express those ideas in your work?

The primary aesthetic choices I used in my work were mainly a vibrant variety of colours, as having upbeat music with dull colour schemes and footage just didn't really make any sense to me. Therefore, I decided to match the visuals as best as I could with the audio, more specifically the use of colours in this context.

## Assignment 2 - Graphic Icons

# How would you summarise your idea behind the suite of icons, and why did you choose the theme that you did?

My idea behind the suite of icons was to create UI designs for a video game. I chose the theme of dream because it fit the idea best, as the other themes didn't really work out as well, especially when I could just choose dream and theme it around a protagonist with dream powers.

# Did you iterate through a series of approaches before settling on one? What changed across those iterations, and why did you choose the one that you ended up with?

Yes, I initially planned on theming the icons as Tarot Cards instead of rotated squares, as I figured the idea of a tarot card revealing the future kind of fitted in with the theme around dreams. However, due to technical difficulties such as my progress literally all going away, I ended up scrapping the idea for more simplified icons inspired by Hades, as they fit the idea of a flat design style best.

# How did you translate your thumbnail sketches into the final flat designs in Illustrator? Was anything lost in that translation, or gained?

Because my thumbnail sketches were already following simplified elements and principles, it was rather easy to translate them into the final flat designs. Due to this, nothing was lost but rather gained, as I expanded on some icons by adding more into them.

# How did you use colour to create a sense of unity and visual interest in the icons? Why did you choose the palette that you did?

I used colour to create a sense of unity by having some icons share a similar colour scheme with others, with most of theme featuring yellow as the main standout. Ex: Icons that included a form of sleeping had featured dark blue.

# How did the elements and principles of sound that you used in your audio design correspond to the elements and principles of design that you used in your visual design?

To connect the elements and principles of design to the sound effects used, I made sure the sound effects were all 'burst' like. As these were meant to be icons for a video game that used heavy amounts of shape, value and contrast, I utilised short, somewhat explosive sound effects to try and relate to the design features.

# How did you translate the prompt that you chose from an abstract idea to a set of concrete visual designs?

Going through a bunch of trial and error, I looked at many other games that featured ability icons and compared them. Overwatch was much more minimalistic with only grey and black as the colour palettes (a more modern look), League of Legends was much more detailed and colourful but didn't look very appealing to me and Hades was the same but had an aesthetic and art style they followed through, which reeled me in. With these inspirations in mind, I ended up putting emphasis on shape as it was a flat design style and tried to communicate to the best of my abilities on symbolisms of the chosen theme.

## Assignment 3 - Virtual Environment

# How important was a working prototype to your design process? What did it offer that process?

It was important in the sense that it helped me gain a good base of what I wanted to do for my vision. It helped me examine the area more closely and helped me realise the pros and cons of my chosen environment, which was that the prototype lacked any variety and was too simple in its ideas.

# How did your experience of designing and producing a three-dimensional environment differ from your experience of designing and producing a project in two-dimensional media?

It was significantly different, I've never produced something 3D before, especially not an entire environment. Furthermore, the projects I do design in 2D media all consist of portraits of human characters, so designing an environment and in a 3D format was entirely new to me. Assets had to be taken into consideration, lighting was still as important as ever but the most difficult part about it was learning how to do everything. Terrain building, map building, meshes and physics - it was all just completely brand new to me. It also didn't help that I missed the entire classes learning on this due to my illness, which made it much more harder to learn.

# What was the role of the virtual camera in your project, and how was it similar to and different from the role of the camera in Assignment 1?

The role of the virtual camera is to show my perspective. It differs from assignment 1 as it showed my perspective from an external point of view, whereas in this assignment you are quite literally walking in my shoes.

# How did you use sound in your project, and how was this similar to and different from your use of sound in Assignments 1 and 2?

Sound had a different purpose in this project. In assignment 1, sound was used to give an upbeat tone to the audience through music. In assignment 2, sound was used to give an impact to ability icons. In this assignment, sound now serves a more subtle role - aiming to give peace to the audience by ambient sounds. Unlike the other two assignments, this kind of sound was much more quieter, more soothing. It's only purpose was to put the player in a state of peace and loneliness.

# How did you unify the different elements of your virtual environment under a certain theme or concept? How did your theme or concept evolve over the project’s development?

Space, camera and depth were all unified under my theme. With space and depth together, the player is lead through the journey of the map by the way its laid out. The space in the trees of the first area indicated a pathway, which the camera is directly facing. Upon proceeding through the area, the large abundance of trees with the shack in the middle (as well as the dirt path) indicated that you were to proceed through the pathway. Upon entering the shack, the empty space in it as well as how tiny the depth was compared to the large open area made for an eerie, unsettling feeling, which was what I wanted in my theme as it was meant to represent the shackles and isolation I feel my illness brings me.

# What did you discover through the process of play testing that you wouldn’t have discovered otherwise?

I discovered that you could walk through the trees, which broke the immersion way too much. Because of this, I had to figure out for hours how to give each tree its own individual mesh so that the player doesn't walk through them. Although I thought it was over, it really wasn't because even the SHACK did not have a proper mesh collider. I tried to figure out why but to no avail, until hours later I turned on something about kinetics which actually gave the shack meshes to stop the players from walking through it. 

## Plan of Webpage

For the aesthetics of the webpage, I want to use modern but striking colours to the webpage. Something like a white/grey, black and red colour palette. As for the target audience, that could be other artists going through my creative portfolio. The features my audience would see in my final webpage design would hopefully be the aesthetic of the webpage, things like typography, images and colour palettes as I'd like to make the portfolio focused on the visual aesthetic.

## Artist Statements

1. My subject matter is a non-narrative video with visuals and music to demonstrate my character. It's about my experiences leading up to RMIT and joining the university, as well as my feelings towards the assignment and my frustrations with the block.
2. Delving into Adobe Illustrator, I've created vector illustrations of the theme 'dream' to design a flat-design UI that resembled ability icons from games with simplified elements and principles.
3. Through creating a three-dimensional envrionment, I've reflected my journey with RMIT and how my illness has severely impacted my ability to learn the course. Through this theme, I've focused on the peacefulness and loneliness of a shack in a forest.